---
layout: post
title: Shifted Dimension Alpha 0.01 will be released for public testing next week!
---

Hey there, everyone! I'm Michael VanOverbeek, the lead developer of The Shifted Dimension. I want to tell you that the next release of Shifted Dimension is coming next Sunday for anyone to use and test.

It's not much yet, I have Alex Perrault modelled and animated with a walk cycle, run cycle, jump sequences, and a flight cycle. Over the next week I'll be adding even more abilities such as driving cars, swimming (like in Saints Row, where you can't swim under the water... Maybe I'll make full-on swimming possible some day, but for now, there's nothing to see under the water) and switching between real life and Shifted Dimension life during gameplay.

So far, Alex can:
 - Run
 - Walk
 - Sprint
 - Jump
 - Fly

And here are the controls for each ability:

 - Running:
   - Arrow keys or W/A/S/D for movement
   - Move the mouse to look around.
 - Sprinting:
   - Hold RIGHT-SHIFT to sprint, same controls as running.
 - Walking:
   - Same controls as Sprinting, but hold Right-Ctrl instead.
 - Jumping:
   - Just hit [SPACE].
 - Flying:
   - If you are in mid-air (either you've jumped or fallen off a cliff), hold LEFT-CTRL to fly. Use the Arrow Keys or W/A/S/D to move around, and move the mouse left and right to steer. You can't change altitude yet, but flying face-first into a mountain will certainly help you. It might hurt though... be careful.

Anyways, be sure to check out [Shifted Games](http://www.shiftgames.ml) and here for any more news related to the game! I'm Michael, signing out.